---
title:  "P2P通信原理-英文版"
date:   2016-01-13 14:30
categories: _posts
---
迁移源地址为：<a href="http://bgwan.blog.163.com/blog/static/2393010162014108817160/">《P2P通信原理-英文版》</a>


参考地址： http://vincentchun.iteye.com/blog/375525


Internet Draft                                                   B. Ford
Document: draft-ford-midcom-p2p-01.txt                            M.I.T.
Expires: April 27, 2004                                     P. Srisuresh
                                                          Caymas Systems
                                                                D. Kegel
                                                               kegel.com
                                                            October 2003


              Peer-to-Peer (P2P) communication across middleboxes


Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet-Draft and is subject to all provisions
   of Section 10 of RFC2026.  Internet-Drafts are working documents of
   the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its
   working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
   documents as Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/1id-abstracts.html

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html

   Distribution of this document is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003).  All Rights Reserved.


Abstract

   This memo documents the methods used by the current peer-to-peer
   (P2P) applications to communicate in the presence of middleboxes
   such as firewalls and network address translators (NAT). In
   addition, the memo suggests guidelines to application designers
   and middlebox implementers on the measures they could take to
   enable immediate, wide deployment of P2P applications with or
   without requiring the use of special proxy, relay or midcom
   protocols.




Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                         [Page 1]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003



Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction .................................................
   2.  Terminology ..................................................
   3.  Techniques for P2P communication over middleboxes ............
       3.1.  Relaying ...............................................
       3.2.  Connection reversal ....................................
       3.3.  UDP Hole Punching ......................................
             3.3.1.  Peers behind different NATs ..................
             3.3.2.  Peers behind the same NAT ....................
             3.3.3.  Peers separated by multiple NATs ...............
             3.3.4.  Consistent port bindings .......................
       3.4.  UDP Port number prediction .............................
       3.5.  Simultaneous TCP open ..................................
   4.  Application design guidelines ................................
       4.1. What works with P2P middleboxes .........................
       4.2. Applications behind the same NAT ........................
       4.3. Peer discovery ..........................................
       4.4. TCP P2P applications ....................................
       4.5. Use of midcom protocol ..................................
   5.  NAT design guidelines ........................................
       5.1. Deprecate the use of symmetric NATs .....................
       5.2. Add incremental Cone-NAT support to symmetric NAT devices
       5.3. Maintaining consistent port bindings for UDP ports .....
             5.3.1.  Preserving Port Numbers ........................
       5.4. Maintaining consistent port bindings for TCP ports .....
       5.5. Large timeout for P2P applications ......................
   6.  Security considerations ......................................


1. Introduction

   Present-day Internet has seen ubiquitous deployment of
   "middleboxes" such as network address translators(NAT), driven
   primarily by the ongoing depletion of the IPv4 address space.  The
   asymmetric addressing and connectivity regimes established by these
   middleboxes, however, have created unique problems for peer-to-peer
   (P2P) applications and  protocols, such as teleconferencing and
   multiplayer on-line gaming. These issues are likely to persist even
   into the IPv6 world, where NAT is often used as an IPv4 compatibility
   mechanism [NAT-PT], and firewalls will still be commonplace even
   after NAT is no longer required.

   Currently deployed middleboxes are designed primarily around the
   client/server paradigm, in which relatively anonymous client machines
   actively initiate connections to well-connected servers having stable
   IP addresses and DNS names.  Most middleboxes implement an asymmetric



Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                         [Page 2]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003


   communication model in which hosts on the private internal network
   can initiate outgoing connections to hosts on the public network, but
   external hosts cannot initiate connections to internal hosts except
   as specifically configured by the middlebox's administrator. In the
   common case of NAPT, a client on the internal network does not have
   a unique IP address on the public Internet, but instead must share
   a single public IP address, managed by the NAPT, with other hosts
   on the same private network.  The anonymity and inaccessibility of
   the internal hosts behind a middlebox is not a problem for client
   software such as web browsers, which only need to initiate outgoing
   connections. This inaccessibility is sometimes seen as a privacy
   benefit.

   In the peer-to-peer paradigm, however, Internet hosts that would
   normally be considered "clients" need to establish communication
   sessions directly with each other. The initiator and the responder
   might lie behind different middleboxes with neither endpoint
   having any permanent IP address or other form of public network
   presence. A common on-line gaming architecture, for example,
   is for the participating application hosts to contact a well-known
   server for initialization and administration purposes. Subsequent
   to this, the hosts establish direct connections with each other
   for fast and efficient propagation of updates during game play.
   Similarly, a file sharing application might contact a well-known
   server for resource discovery or searching, but establish direct
   connections with peer hosts for data transfer. Middleboxes create
   problems for peer-to-peer connections because hosts behind a
   middlebox normally have no permanently usable public ports on the
   Internet to which incoming TCP or UDP connections from other peers
   can be directed.  RFC 3235 [NAT-APPL] briefly addresses this issue,
   but does not offer any general solutions.

   In this document we address the P2P/middlebox problem in two ways.
   First, we summarize known methods by which P2P applications can
   work around the presence of middleboxes. Second, we provide a set
   of application design guidelines based on these practices to make
   P2P applications operate more robustly over currently-deployed
   middleboxes. Further, we provide design guidelines for future
   middleboxes to allow them to support P2P applications more
   effectively. Our focus is to enable immediate and wide deployment
   of P2P applications requiring to traverse middleboxes.

2. Terminology

In this section we first summarize some middlebox terms. We focus here
on the two kinds of middleboxes that commonly cause problems for P2P
applications.




Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                         [Page 3]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003


   Firewall
      A firewall restricts communication between a private internal
      network and the public Internet, typically by dropping packets
      that are deemed unauthorized.  A firewall examines but does
      not modify the IP address and TCP/UDP port information in
      packets crossing the boundary.

   Network Address Translator (NAT)
      A network address translator not only examines but also modifies
      the header information in packets flowing across the boundary,
      allowing many hosts behind the NAT to share the use of a smaller
      number of public IP addresses (often one).

   Network address translators in turn have two main varieties:

   Basic NAT
      A Basic NAT maps an internal host's private IP address to a
      public IP address without changing the TCP/UDP port
      numbers in packets crossing the boundary.  Basic NAT is generally
      only useful when the NAT has a pool of public IP addresses from
      which to make address bindings on behalf of internal hosts.

   Network Address/Port Translator (NAPT)
      By far the most common, a Network Address/Port Translator examines
      and modifies both the IP address and the TCP/UDP port number
      fields of packets crossing the boundary, allowing multiple
      internal hosts to share a single public IP address simultaneously.

   Refer to [NAT-TRAD] and [NAT-TERM] for more general information on
   NAT taxonomy and terminology. Additional terms that further classify
   NAPT are defined in more recent work [STUN]. When an internal host
   opens an outgoing TCP or UDP session through a network address/port
   translator, the NAPT assigns the session a public IP address and
   port number so that subsequent response packets from the external
   endpoint can be received by the NAPT, translated, and forwarded
   to the internal host. The effect is that the NAPT establishes a
   port binding between (private IP address, private port number) and
   (public IP address, public port number). The port binding
   defines the address translation the NAPT will perform for the
   duration of the session.  An issue of relevance to P2P
   applications is how the NAT behaves when an internal host initiates
   multiple simultaneous sessions from a single (private IP, private
   port) pair to multiple distinct endpoints on the external network.

   Cone NAT
      After establishing a port binding between a (private IP, private
      port) tuple and a (public IP, public port) tuple, a cone NAT will
      re-use this port binding for subsequent sessions the



Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                         [Page 4]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003


      application may initiate from the same private IP address and
      port number, for as long as at least one session using the port
      binding remains active.

      For example, suppose Client A in the diagram below initiates two
      simultaneous outgoing sessions through a cone NAT, from the same
      internal endpoint (10.0.0.1:1234) to two different
      external servers, S1 and S2.  The cone NAT assigns just one public
      endpoint tuple, 155.99.25.11:62000, to both of these sessions,
      ensuring that the "identity" of the client's port is maintained
      across address translation. Since Basic NATs and firewalls do
      not modify port numbers as packets flow across
      the middlebox, these types of middleboxes can be viewed as a
      degenerate form of Cone NAT.



           Server S1                                     Server S2
        18.181.0.31:1235                              138.76.29.7:1235
               |                                             |
               |                                             |
               +----------------------+----------------------+
                                      |
          ^  Session 1 (A-S1)  ^      |      ^  Session 2 (A-S2)  ^
          |  18.181.0.31:1235  |      |      |  138.76.29.7:1235  |
          v 155.99.25.11:62000 v      |      v 155.99.25.11:62000 v
                                      |
                                   Cone NAT
                                 155.99.25.11
                                      |
          ^  Session 1 (A-S1)  ^      |      ^  Session 2 (A-S2)  ^
          |  18.181.0.31:1235  |      |      |  138.76.29.7:1235  |
          v   10.0.0.1:1234    v      |      v   10.0.0.1:1234    v
                                      |
                                   Client A
                                10.0.0.1:1234















Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                         [Page 5]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003


   Symmetric NAT
      A symmetric NAT, in contrast, does not maintain a consistent
      port binding  between (private IP, private port) and (public IP,
      public port) across all sessions. Instead, it assigns a new
      public port to each new session.  For example, suppose Client A
      initiates two outgoing sessions from the same port as above, one
      with S1 and one with S2.  A symmetric NAT might allocate the
      public endpoint 155.99.25.11:62000 to session 1, and then allocate
      a different public endpoint 155.99.25.11:62001, when the
      application initiates session 2.  The NAT is able to differentiate
      between the two sessions for translation purposes because the
      external endpoints involved in the sessions (those of S1
      and S2) differ, even as the endpoint identity of the client
      application is lost across the address translation boundary.



           Server S1                                     Server S2
        18.181.0.31:1235                              138.76.29.7:1235
               |                                             |
               |                                             |
               +----------------------+----------------------+
                                      |
          ^  Session 1 (A-S1)  ^      |      ^  Session 2 (A-S2)  ^
          |  18.181.0.31:1235  |      |      |  138.76.29.7:1235  |
          v 155.99.25.11:62000 v      |      v 155.99.25.11:62001 v
                                      |
                                 Symmetric NAT
                                 155.99.25.11
                                      |
          ^  Session 1 (A-S1)  ^      |      ^  Session 2 (A-S2)  ^
          |  18.181.0.31:1235  |      |      |  138.76.29.7:1235  |
          v   10.0.0.1:1234    v      |      v   10.0.0.1:1234    v
                                      |
                                   Client A
                                10.0.0.1:1234

   The issue of cone versus symmetric NAT behavior applies equally
   to TCP and UDP traffic.

   Cone NAT is further classified according to how liberally the NAT
   accepts incoming traffic directed to an already-established (public
   IP, public port) pair.  This classification generally applies only to
   UDP traffic, since NATs and firewalls reject incoming TCP
   connection attempts unconditionally unless specifically configured to
   do otherwise.

   Full Cone NAT



Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                         [Page 6]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003


      After establishing a public/private port binding for a new
      outgoing session, a full cone NAT will subsequently accept
      incoming traffic to the corresponding public port from ANY
      external endpoint on the public network.  Full cone NAT is
      also sometimes called "promiscuous" NAT.

   Restricted Cone NAT
      A restricted cone NAT only forwards an incoming packet directed to
      a public port if its external (source) IP address matches the
      address of a node to which the internal host has previously sent
      one or more outgoing packets.  A restricted cone NAT effectively
      refines the firewall principle of rejecting unsolicited incoming
      traffic, by restricting incoming traffic to a set of "known"
      external IP addresses.

   Port-Restricted Cone NAT
      A port-restricted cone NAT, in turn, only forwards an incoming
      packet if its external IP address AND port number match those of
      an external endpoint to which the internal host has previously
      sent outgoing packets.  A port-restricted cone NAT provides
      internal nodes the same level of protection against unsolicited
      incoming traffic that a symmetric NAT does, while maintaining a
      private port's identity across translation.

   Finally, in this document we define new terms for classifying
   the P2P-relevant behavior of middleboxes:

   P2P-Application
      P2P-application as used in this document is an application in
      which each P2P participant registers with a public
      registration server, and subsequently uses either its
      private endpoint, or public endpoint, or both, to establish
      peering sessions.

   P2P-Middlebox
      A P2P-Middlebox is middlebox that permits the traversal of
      P2P applications.

   P2P-firewall
      A P2P-firewall is a P2P-Middlebox that provides firewall
      functionality but performs no address translation.

   P2P-NAT
      A P2P-NAT is a P2P-Middlebox that provides NAT functionality, and
      may also provide firewall functionality. At minimum, a
      P2P-Middlebox must implement Cone NAT behavior for UDP traffic,
      allowing applications to establish robust P2P connectivity using
      the UDP hole punching technique.



Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                         [Page 7]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003



   Loopback translation
      When a host in the private domain of a NAT device attempts to
      connect with another host behind the same NAT device using
      the public address of the host, the NAT device performs the
      equivalent of a "Twice-nat" translation on the packet as
      follows. The originating host's private endpoint is translated
      into its assigned public endpoint, and the target host's public
      endpoint is translated into its private endpoint, before
      the packet is forwarded to the target host. We refer the above
      translation performed by a NAT device as "Loopback translation".

3. Techniques for P2P Communication over middleboxes

   This section reviews in detail the currently known techniques for
   implementing peer-to-peer communication over existing middleboxes,
   from the perspective of the application or protocol designer.

3.1. Relaying

   The most reliable, but least efficient, method of implementing peer-
   to-peer communication in the presence of a middlebox is to make the
   peer-to-peer communication look to the network like client/server
   communication through relaying.  For example, suppose two client
   hosts, A and B, have each initiated TCP or UDP connections with a
   well-known server S having a permanent IP address.  The clients
   reside on separate private networks, however, and their respective
   middleboxes prevent either client from directly initiating a
   connection to the other.

                                Server S
                                   |
                                   |
            +----------------------+----------------------+
            |                                             |
          NAT A                                         NAT B
            |                                             |
            |                                             |
         Client A                                      Client B

   Instead of attempting a direct connection, the two clients can simply
   use the server S to relay messages between them.  For example, to
   send a message to client B, client A simply sends the message to
   server S along its already-established client/server connection, and
   server S then sends the message on to client B using its existing
   client/server connection with B.

   This method has the advantage that it will always work as long as



Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                         [Page 8]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003


   both clients have connectivity to the server.  Its obvious
   disadvantages are that it consumes the server's processing power and
   network bandwidth unnecessarily, and communication latency between
   the two clients is likely to be increased even if the server is well-
   connected.  The TURN protocol [TURN] defines a method of implementing
   relaying in a relatively secure fashion.













































Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                         [Page 9]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003


3.2. Connection reversal

   The second technique works if only one of the clients is behind a
   middlebox.  For example, suppose client A is behind a NAT but client
   B has a globally routable IP address, as in the following diagram:

                                Server S
                            18.181.0.31:1235
                                   |
                                   |
            +----------------------+----------------------+
            |                                             |
          NAT A                                           |
    155.99.25.11:62000                                    |
            |                                             |
            |                                             |
         Client A                                      Client B
      10.0.0.1:1234                               138.76.29.7:1234

   Client A has private IP address 10.0.0.1, and the application is
   using TCP port 1234.  This client has established a connection with
   server S at public IP address 18.181.0.31 and port 1235.  NAT A has
   assigned TCP port 62000, at its own public IP address 155.99.25.11,
   to serve as the temporary public endpoint address for A's session
   with S: therefore, server S believes that client A is at IP address
   155.99.25.11 using port 62000.  Client B, however, has its own
   permanent IP address, 138.76.29.7, and the peer-to-peer application
   on B is accepting TCP connections at port 1234.

   Now suppose client B would like to initiate a peer-to-peer
   communication session with client A.  B might first attempt to
   contact client A either at the address client A believes itself to
   have, namely 10.0.0.1:1234, or at the address of A as observed by
   server S, namely 155.99.25.11:62000.  In either case, however, the
   connection will fail.  In the first case, traffic directed to IP
   address 10.0.0.1 will simply be dropped by the network because
   10.0.0.1 is not a publicly routable IP address.  In the second case,
   the TCP SYN request from B will arrive at NAT A directed to port
   62000, but NAT A will reject the connection request because only
   outgoing connections are allowed.

   After attempting and failing to establish a direct connection to A,
   client B can use server S to relay a request to client A to initiate
   a "reversed" connection to client B.  Client A, upon receiving this
   relayed request through S, opens a TCP connection to client B at B's
   public IP address and port number.  NAT A allows the connection to
   proceed because it is originating inside the firewall, and client B
   can receive the connection because it is not behind a middlebox.



Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                        [Page 10]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003



   A variety of current peer-to-peer systems implement this technique.
   Its main limitation, of course, is that it only works as long as only
   one of the communicating peers is behind a NAT: in the increasingly
   common case where both peers are behind NATs, the method fails.
   Because connection reversal is not a general solution to the problem,
   it is NOT recommended as a primary strategy.  Applications may choose
   to attempt connection reversal, but should be able to fall back
   automatically on another mechanism such as relaying if neither a
   "forward" nor a "reverse" connection can be established.

3.3. UDP hole punching

   The third technique, and the one of primary interest in this
   document, is widely known as "UDP Hole Punching."  UDP hole punching
   relies on the properties of common firewalls and cone NATs to allow
   appropriately designed peer-to-peer applications to "punch holes"
   through the middlebox and establish direct connectivity with each
   other, even when both communicating hosts may lie behind middleboxes.
   This technique was mentioned briefly in section 5.1 of RFC 3027 [NAT-
   PROT], and has been informally described elsewhere on the Internet
   [KEGEL] and used in some recent protocols [TEREDO, ICE].  As the name
   implies, unfortunately, this technique works reliably only with UDP.

   We will consider two specific scenarios, and how applications can be
   designed to handle both of them gracefully.  In the first situation,
   representing the common case, two clients desiring direct peer-to-
   peer communication reside behind two different NATs.  In the second,
   the two clients actually reside behind the same NAT, but do not
   necessarily know that they do.

3.3.1. Peers behind different NATs

   Suppose clients A and B both have private IP addresses and lie behind
   different network address translators.  The peer-to-peer application
   running on clients A and B and on server S each use UDP port 1234.  A
   and B have each initiated UDP communication sessions with server S,
   causing NAT A to assign its own public UDP port 62000 for A's session
   with S, and causing NAT B to assign its port 31000 to B's session
   with S, respectively.

                                Server S
                            18.181.0.31:1234
                                   |
                                   |
            +----------------------+----------------------+
            |                                             |
          NAT A                                         NAT B



Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                        [Page 11]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003


    155.99.25.11:62000                            138.76.29.7:31000
            |                                             |
            |                                             |
         Client A                                      Client B
      10.0.0.1:1234                                 10.1.1.3:1234

   Now suppose that client A wants to establish a UDP communication
   session directly with client B.  If A simply starts sending UDP
   messages to B's public address, 138.76.29.7:31000, then NAT B will
   typically discard these incoming messages (unless it is a full cone
   NAT), because the source address and port number does not match those
   of S, with which the original outgoing session was established.
   Similarly, if B simply starts sending UDP messages to A's public
   address, then NAT A will typically discard these messages.

   Suppose A starts sending UDP messages to B's public address, however,
   and simultaneously relays a request through server S to B, asking B
   to start sending UDP messages to A's public address.  A's outgoing
   messages directed to B's public address (138.76.29.7:31000) cause NAT
   A to open up a new communication session between A's private address
   and B's public address.  At the same time, B's messages to A's public
   address (155.99.25.11:62000) cause NAT B to open up a new
   communication session between B's private address and A's public
   address.  Once the new UDP sessions have been opened up in each
   direction, client A and B can communicate with each other directly
   without further burden on the "introduction" server S.

   The UDP hole punching technique has several useful properties.  Once
   a direct peer-to-peer UDP connection has been established between two
   clients behind middleboxes, either party on that connection can in
   turn take over the role of "introducer" and help the other party
   establish peer-to-peer connections with additional peers, minimizing
   the load on the initial introduction server S.  The application does
   not need to attempt to detect explicitly what kind of middlebox it is
   behind, if any [STUN], since the procedure above will establish peer-
   to-peer communication channels equally well if either or both clients
   do not happen to be behind a middlebox.  The hole punching technique
   even works automatically with multiple NATs, where one or both
   clients are removed from the public Internet via two or more levels
   of address translation.

3.3.2. Peers behind the same NAT

   Now consider the scenario in which the two clients (probably
   unknowingly) happen to reside behind the same NAT, and are therefore
   located in the same private IP address space.  Client A has
   established a UDP session with server S, to which the common NAT has
   assigned public port number 62000.  Client B has similarly



Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                        [Page 12]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003


   established a session with S, to which the NAT has assigned public
   port number 62001.

                                Server S
                            18.181.0.31:1234
                                   |
                                   |
                                  NAT
                         A-S 155.99.25.11:62000
                         B-S 155.99.25.11:62001
                                   |
            +----------------------+----------------------+
            |                                             |
         Client A                                      Client B
      10.0.0.1:1234                                 10.1.1.3:1234

   Suppose that A and B use the UDP hole punching technique as outlined
   above to establish a communication channel using server S as an
   introducer.  Then A and B will learn each other's public IP addresses
   and port numbers as observed by server S, and start sending each
   other messages at those public addresses.  The two clients will be
   able to communicate with each other this way as long as the NAT
   allows hosts on the internal network to open translated UDP sessions
   with other internal hosts and not just with external hosts. We refer
   to this situation as "loopback translation," because packets arriving
   at the NAT from the private network are translated and then "looped
   back" to the private network rather than being passed through to the
   public network.  For example, when A sends a UDP packet to B's public
   address, the packet initially has a source IP address and port number
   of 10.0.0.1:124 and a destination of 155.99.25.11:62001.  The NAT
   receives this packet, translates it to have a source of
   155.99.25.11:62000 (A's public address) and a destination of
   10.1.1.3:1234, and then forwards it on to B.  Even if loopback
   translation is supported by the NAT, this translation and forwarding
   step is obviously unnecessary in this situation, and is likely to add
   latency to the dialog between A and B as well as burdening the NAT.

   The solution to this problem is straightforward, however.  When A and
   B initially exchange address information through server S, they
   should include their own IP addresses and port numbers as "observed"
   by themselves, as well as their addresses as observed by S.  The
   clients then simultaneously start sending packets to each other at
   each of the alternative addresses they know about, and use the first
   address that leads to successful communication.  If the two clients
   are behind the same NAT, then the packets directed to their private
   addresses are likely to arrive first, resulting in a direct
   communication channel not involving the NAT.  If the two clients are
   behind different NATs, then the packets directed to their private



Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                        [Page 13]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003


   addresses will fail to reach each other at all, but the clients will
   hopefully establish connectivity using their respective public
   addresses.  It is important that these packets be authenticated in
   some way, however, since in the case of different NATs it is entirely
   possible for A's messages directed at B's private address to reach
   some other, unrelated node on A's private network, or vice versa.

3.3.3. Peers separated by multiple NATs

   In some topologies involving multiple NAT devices, it is not
   possible for two clients to establish an "optimal" P2P route between
   them without specific knowledge of the topology.  Consider for
   example the following situation.


                                Server S
                            18.181.0.31:1234
                                   |
                                   |
                                 NAT X
                         A-S 155.99.25.11:62000
                         B-S 155.99.25.11:62001
                                   |
                                   |
            +----------------------+----------------------+
            |                                             |
          NAT A                                         NAT B
    192.168.1.1:30000                             192.168.1.2:31000
            |                                             |
            |                                             |
         Client A                                      Client B
      10.0.0.1:1234                                 10.1.1.3:1234

   Suppose NAT X is a large industrial NAT deployed by an internet
   service provider (ISP) to multiplex many customers onto a few public
   IP addresses, and NATs A and B are small consumer NAT gateways
   deployed independently by two of the ISP's customers to multiplex
   their private home networks onto their respective ISP-provided IP
   addresses.  Only server S and NAT X have globally routable IP
   addresses; the "public" IP addresses used by NAT A and NAT B are
   actually private to the ISP's addressing realm, while client A's and
   B's addresses in turn are private to the addressing realms of NAT A
   and B, respectively.  Each client initiates an outgoing connection to
   server S as before, causing NATs A and B each to create a single
   public/private translation, and causing NAT X to establish a
   public/private translation for each session.

   Now suppose clients A and B attempt to establish a direct peer-to-



Ford, Srisuresh & Kegel                                        [Page 14]

Internet-Draft     P2P applications across middleboxes      October 2003